=============
 GDAGsim 0.2
=============

http://www.staff.ncl.ac.uk/d.j.wilkinson/software/

(C) 2000, Darren J Wilkinson

This is FREE SOFTWARE - see the file "copyright" for details.

GDAGsim is a C library for building, analysing and block-sampling
Gaussian Directed Acyclic Graph (GDAG) models. It can be used for
construction of efficient MCMC schemes for inference in large linear
models, or for Bayes linear analysis of large stochastic systems.

If you are interested in Gaussian Markov Random Fields (GMRFs), you
should use Havard Rue's GMRFsim library. This software is only for DAG
models.

The library depends on the GNU Scientific Library (GSL). You will not
be able to get this software to work unless you already have the GSL
installed and working correctly.

The current version (0.2) also depends on the Meschach matrix library
(though no familiarity with that library is assumed). So you will also
need that installed and working correctly before attempting to install
GDAGsim.

The software works by building the (sparse) precision matrix for the
latent (unobserved) variables conditional on any observations, and
then computing with it. The current system is practical for problems
involving 10,000 latent (unobserved) variables, but see the
documentation for hints on the ordering of latent variables.  Versions
of the library for massively parallel supercomputers are also planned
(for the analysis of huge spatio-temporal models), but not in the very
near future.

Installation instructions are given in the file "INSTALL", a user
guide can be found in the directory "doc", and the examples from the
user guide can be found in the directory "examples".

If you use the library, find any bugs, have any bug-fixes, comments,
suggestions etc, please let me know... Thanks to Stephen Yeung for a
couple of bug reports and fixes.


Darren Wilkinson, 26/1/2001


d.j.wilkinson@ncl.ac.uk

http://www.staff.ncl.ac.uk/d.j.wilkinson/

