=============
 GDAGsim 0.1
=============

http://www.staff.ncl.ac.uk/d.j.wilkinson/software/

(C) 2000, Darren J Wilkinson

This is FREE SOFTWARE - see the file "copyright" for details.

GDAGsim is a C library for building, analysing and block-sampling
Gaussian Directed Acyclic Graph (GDAG) models. It can be used for
construction of efficient MCMC schemes for inference in large linear
models, or for Bayes linear analysis of large stochastic systems.

If you are interested in Gaussian Markov Random Fields (GMRFs), you
should use Havard Rue's GMRFsim library. This software is only for DAG
models.

The library depends on the GNU Scientific Library (GSL). You will not
be able to get this software to work unless you already have the GSL
installed and working correctly.

The software works by building the (sparse) precision matrix for the
latent (unobserved) variables conditional on any observations, and
then computing with it. This current implementation stores the full
matrix, and operates on it using dense matrix algorithms. This is VERY
inefficient in terms of both storage and computation time. A
sparse-matrix version is currently under development, and will make
use of the BLAST Sparse BLAS standard as soon as a reference
implementation becomes available. It is intended that the sparse
implementation will have EXACTLY the same interface as the current
implementation, so that any code developed for this software will link
against the new improved library when it becomes available. The
current system is practical for problems involving up to 1,000 latent
(unobserved) variables. The sparse-matrix implementation should handle
problems involving 100,000 variables or more. Versions of the library
for massively parallel supercomputers are also planned (for the
analysis of huge spatio-temporal models), but not in the very near
future.

Installation instructions are given in the file "INSTALL", a user
guide can be found in the directory "doc", and the examples from the
user guide can be found in the directory "examples".

If you use the library, find any bugs, have any bug-fixes, comments,
suggestions etc, please let me know... Thanks to Stephen Yeung for a
couple of bug reports and fixes.


Darren Wilkinson, 22/11/2000


d.j.wilkinson@ncl.ac.uk

http://www.staff.ncl.ac.uk/d.j.wilkinson/

